[Music]
for
for for
[Music]
hello
something I don't think the stream will
be too long well we'll fill it
out actually have the pitch of this
transpose normally if I
play that chord it plays this
sometimes it's fun to just be like well
now I don't know what chord it is
anymore but it's
[Music]
something I don't usually transpose the
piano but sometimes I do and it like
comes gives me like new ideas cuz it's
like I don't know the piano anymore
[Music]
and that's how I arrived at this one
maybe a little just a little limiter
somewhere cuz you're being so loud
[Music]
well I don't know what that is that was
a complete accident
[Music]
for
that
[Music]
for
no this is the this is a nexcess patch
actually for fun
[Music]
a
uh
[Music]
for
oh what the [__] oh nice
[Music]
chord what was I doing I was
I have used vcv rack yet I haven't use
it in a song but I play around with it
[Music]
M the lick anyone
all right let's go in normal
tuning oh no I didn't transpose it this
way I transpose it this way that's the
easier way but I'm trying to do it the
harder way
[Music]
hello no more transposition normal
normal today
no release how about some
[Music]
attack what if I did
this I promise I don't only use vintage
verb but it's just kind of really good
so CU that sounds like this
oops
if I turn on the spread knob the NES
will go kind of random left and
[Music]
right yeah if you want a really good
Reverb get this it's $50 and I kind of
only use it most of the time sometimes I
don't but I just use this for everything
really
[Music]
it's a one-time purchase I bought this
like six years ago and I've never paid
another dollar for it since all updates
have been
[Music]
free this is a song wrote when I was
11 10 or
[Music]
11 trying to remember it
it's just that it just like repeats over
and over again
um and it's just in the technical C
major scale you just like kind of go
down the keyboard you go
[Music]
um I thought when it was like yeah about
10 or
11 and it was recorded somewhere I might
even able to find it at some point
but
um funny enough let's
see this is some lore this is like kind
of a deep cut though
because I don't think a lot of my
current audience has listen to arlight
and after but the first song off of
arlight and after is actually just that
progression in a different key
for some reason I decided yeah I'll do
the I'll do this song I did when I was
11 and I'll just like redo it for for
the first song when ourl and after but
like
different um this is from 2018 so it's
sort of a it's weird to think that this
is sort of a deep cut now but it's a
deep cut
now the song is called floating it's for
my album ARL and after here's the album
cover done by the wonderful fire fiz
fizzle soda formerly fire Fizz I have
the credit properly fizzle soda very
good
um we had that
song it's just redoing like the one I
did as a kid
[Music]
and I think You' play it slowly in the
studio version if I remember correctly
but
like it takes a long time to just play
it slowly in normal piano so it's like I
get
bored um so I just play it fast when I'm
playing it
normally um a allot of the songs I wrote
as a kid when I was really little um I
st sort of had no idea how chords worked
so I don't really know how i' play
them but some of them will be very
simple oh you know what I did when I was
little I made a song using the
chords just these
[Music]
as you can see I wrote everything in
like C major C minor when I was little
because I just didn't know how to do
anything yet I think I did I wrote that
when I was like oh it would have been
like nine I
[Music]
think it just sounds like a Tavern song
you could tell I like I wrote when I was
little cuz like I'm doing things that
only my small hands could have
done I can reach a little bit further
now with my hands than than before
so that's good
um Ian I'm glad I think that's just how
life Works think your hands just get
bigger um trying to think of other songs
when I was a little trying to play them
in my
head oh
[Music]
there's okay there's another
song Here's here's a song I wrote when I
was I think it was
[Music]
10 it was just that it was just that
back and forth over and over
again I think I I build off I built off
of it in some way
it was like really it was like really
silly but it was
fun I think these are songs anyone can
play on piano which is good maybe I
should do the The Violet Pony songs I
wrote when I was eight8 to 10 years old
redo and then just like they can be
songs everyone can practice when they're
near to piano
[Music]
how how little how little I knew that I
would start playing jazz chords
instead um whatever this is like now
we're
doing it's like oh how how I wish I had
known is a fun this is a funny and a
true story um I never of any piano
lessons I'm completely selftaught which
is also why I kind of [__] up sometimes
cuz I don't actually know proper piano
like movements so I'm going to [__] up a
lot because I'll just like kind of hit
the wrong [__] sometimes I mean even if
you're a professional like really really
really really really good piano player
you're still going to make mistakes but
like what I mean is like I'm going to
make clear mistakes of just hitting [__]
that I'm not even trying to do and I'll
still hit it because I'm just like
fumbling around but
um where was I going with this oh TR
yeah true story the way I learned Jazz
chords was I just made weird shapes with
my hands a lot and I just played them
and if they sounded dissonant in a way I
didn't like them I just changed the
fingering
motions and I basically did this over
and over and over and over and over and
over and over again until like my hands
just kind of found out what the cords
were um so I don't know that's kind of
funny I think anyone can do that so if
you I think you should do that if you
want to play piano you should just like
play random things and be like oh I
don't like that I'm going to change my
hand movement and then oh I like that
that sounds good I'll keep doing that
Etc like it's it's really
strange like the way I learned piano is
just like playing things
until it just sounded
good knowledge about skills goinging
your learning process um I know about
scales like from an intuitive
level like I can do scales
like so I can do
like of course though
just just basic things but I don't even
know what I'm doing except obviously
that last one was the c major scale um I
just kind of like get into modes where
I'm like certain notes sound good and
certain notes don't um I'd make a
terrible like music theory
teacher but I think I'd make a really
good Music Creation
teacher I think I could teach you how to
make music I don't think I could teach
you how to understand music
though I mean I could maybe could but
like I kind of don't know how to start
from the bottom I'm kind of just like at
the later stage but without the Lesser
more important fundamental rudimentary
things
so um I tell this I'll tell this thing
to everyone if you're wanting to learn
piano and if you want to just like play
something right away um pick a
note and pick another one seven sem
tones up 1 2 3 4 5 six all right sorry
that's the one and then 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
that's your
fifth and if you do that for every
single note on the keyboard you can play
a fifth note a Fifth Fifth with that
that note so let's do that one 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 and that's a perfect
fifth right let's do another one um
g 1 two 1 2 3 4 5 six seven and that's
your fifth for
G so get used to playing fifth chords
like
[Music]
that and then once you done
that then you can be like let's pick a
note in between these two now it doesn't
have to be whatever one I'm going to see
how that
sounds oh interesting
fascinating that's a a C
minor but if we take that note and move
it somewhere else that's a C
major so practice playing around with
that fifth chord and then adding a third
note inside of that fifth
[Music]
shape and then the last step to being
able to just like play these things you
know right off the bat is take that
chord move it over here let's say we're
going to do this here and take one of
the notes any of them preferably the
lower one but it could be any of them
and play it lower on that left hand and
then you
[Music]
get oh
or
[Music]
or and wow all of a
sudden that's like that's a that's a
whole ass
thing and I'm just picking one of the
notes that I'm already playing
here on this side wait is that even
showing up on the
camera yes it do just
barely so if you want to learn piano or
if you just want to play things very
basic things remember pick a note 1 2 3
4 5 6 7even up from there add a note in
between and then take with your left
hands go play a Bas note based on one of
these three notes
[Music]
there you go You' got a very very very
basic rudimentary like ability to play
chords now all of a sudden it's just
like
math you can do
it and you just like see how that stuff
feels and you just like kind of play
around it and see I sounds good all that
doesn't sound good to you and the cool
thing about music is if you
like that sound right
there if you like that chord um
you're allowed to there are lots of
people who like music with chords like
this so you should just do whatever you
want and just think oh I like this oh I
don't like this just choose for yourself
there isn't really a wrong way to do it
there's a way to not do it in accordance
to the average music theorist and the
maybe the average listener but it
doesn't really mean it's wrong wrong it
just means it's wrong for that audience
but not for you it doesn't have to be
wrong for you that's the really cool
thing about music
is you can do whatever you want and if
you like it you're you're winning you're
already there you're already having a
good time that's
music I like to try and make music
that's like in between what I want and
what other people
want um I'll always pull more towards
what I
want especially nowadays
I don't really like to do things just to
appease people
but um I do like to do things kind of in
between although I think the record I'm
working on right now is definitely like
the most what I want and probably like
the least what everyone else wants type
[__]
but yeah that's
fine um but yeah let's do it one more
time let's do the exercise one more time
pick a note uh let's just do this one 1
2 3 4 5 6 seven up from there and then
whatever this
is pick the low note
[Music]
here then once you have that chord shape
memorize that chord shape and then come
back to it then you can like play around
with it like
[Music]
like you don't have to just play the
chord like like that you can be
like and then look at you you already
know how to play piano a little bit I
think anyone can do that so I think
everyone should if they want
to
um wow
my lips are so
[__] this [__] hot ass weather is
killing my own mouth it's awesome it's
so
good
nice smooth voice it feels like a
Crystal I'm really glad you feel that
way my voice sounds very different
from a long time ago for obvious
reasons sometimes I go back and watch
some of my older videos and the voice is
like
jarring it's very
fascinating very happy with my where my
voice is right
now both with singing and with
speaking I do try a little bit harder
when I'm like in front of
people
um but overall it's just
like it's it's it's been pretty natural
I think the problem or not the problem
but like one of the reasons it was
um so easy for me is because I my voice
has always been high to begin with and
then when I started to get a little bit
older as a teenager I actually started
speaking low sizzy actual sizzy wait
wait a
minute whoa chat slow down I can't click
on [__]
profile oh it's not even doing it there
hold on I have to do it on the
browser
real
wait oh my God actual sizzy actual sizzy
hello no
way if you want the best album of the
year then you should go listen to to
sizzy is the weight of the
world it eclipses everything I did in
girls for wizards by by a long shot
you'll love
it it's like it's like the top one of
the top five for me this
year the mo I I'm so happy about
it this is this is dop like the
one come guys you don't have to take my
energy like that
they could listen to both albums but
they have to listen to them back to back
that's the that's the real
experience we we made them for made them
for a similar
purpose she moves with a purpose what a
magnificent
purpose one in each ear oh my God that's
the Ultimate Experience wait a minute
but that means our albums have to prove
how monoc compatible they are so maybe
don't do
that wait sizzy did you did you monoch
check did you monoch check your album a
lot are you # mono
compatible I don't know if I'm monoc
compatible
like super saw junkies tend
to oh well you know what it's safer
you're being safer by by checking but I
I hate having to do mono compatibility I
want I want my [__] to phase out the
[__] in mono CU it just sounds cool in
Stereo like everyone should just listen
in Stereo
instead GR
play them front to back on a surround
setup mono compatibility is the
problem we're we're getting like the
craziest tech support right now
serious but yeah I think that's that's a
way to solve the the mono thing I mean
okay I did I did do the engineering for
girls for Wizard it's like with mono
compatibility in mind but there are some
parts where it just it can't work in
mono just cuz I just want to do some
funny things I think musicians at Pony
vils a l of the growls get all phazzy In
Mono or
something cross fitting out do I have
the
um will I get a copyright for
this what's it it's
a I have too many files in my computer
named Paul McCartney
unfortunately here it is our was created
sorry that was really loud I should have
warned everyone how R was
created you have to you have to do the
girl St WI versus the way to the world
that way you just cross fade you just
chop
it this assumes that most of the things
on Paul's slicing shpes he's slicing A
Perfect Circle I'll tell you what who
actually is puny whoop can someone
explain everyone don't explain there is
nothing to explain pyoop is just puny
[__] I don't want to alarm anyone but
there's like a dead there's been a dead
like fly on the right corner bottom
right corner of my monitor for like the
past week and a half and I just like
haven't done anything about like it's
just like it's really
small but it's just been like it's just
like been dead specifically on the
bottom right corner of my monitor and I
feel like it just adds a little bit more
atmosphere so I'm not really sure if I
want to get rid of it but I was drawn my
attention was drawn to it because
another fly just came in trying to not
inside the monitor no I'm not that cool
is on the
monitor but another another fly came in
just started like just flying right over
here and just like kind of buzzing
around it's like it's dead
dude do something else stop wasting your
time there's been a dead Cricket next to
your window well I'll do you one better
there's been a dead
bee on on my window sill for 4 years and
it's still there
so I just wanted to see it like I just
wanted to see it decomposed so I just
left it there and it's still
there the dead bug
collector it's
true not the fuzzy it's not a fuzzy V
it's a this that was a normal honey
be there's a dead goo thing in my
jar that's probably the [__] green
guy from the moose that's the
shimo are dead bug
collecting you can see it's corpse only
when the lights are on that's
crazy my collection of decomposing books
I don't really do it on purpose I'm just
like it's just it takes effort to like
get rid of
them like and I'm one with
nature what's funny is when I when I
lived in California
I would always like try and take any
spiders out and like and get them
outside or something when they were in
the house but now I've just had this
tendency to be like if there's a spider
in here I just like I like just leave it
and I just like kind of kind of like say
hi to it every time it comes
out every now and then there's a spider
in here I'm just like you can chill it's
fine they don't do anything like they
they're they're not being they're
they're very scared
creatures I tell the story a lot but um
because I really like it but I used to
do stuff at the San Francisco Zoo there
was some program where we were like
honorary zookeepers or
something and one of my favorite things
to do was when we got to like handle and
take care of the
tarantulas in the insect
hereo
and I just really liked holding the
Tarantulas and they're so anxious
spiders are so anxious very very very
anxious so like I kind of got them I
kind of like befriended them cuz I'm
like we're the same thing
though
um I remember getting so used to like
being able to hold my hand still and all
the smallest muscles in here like kind
of keeping them from moving because if
you're holding a tarantula any like kind
of have any sort of Twitch in the
smaller muscles they can feel that and
they get like freaked out it's like I
get it like I I totally get it someone a
family friend I think apparently had a
tarantula that
would tear its own like hair out cuz it
was so
anxious was like What triam mania or
something like that triam Mania in a in
a tarantula spider I was like the most
heartbreaking thing I've ever heard that
it was like it it suffered that badly
from anxiety that it like did
that
so I think about that a
lot spiders are so cool I wish some of
them weren't like
dangerous but I get it they're small and
they need they need
to need to make sure they live as long
as they want
to so I get it I just I just don't want
them to hurt me cuz I'm not going to
hurt them spiders are so
chill but yeah tarantul with
uh well this particular tarantula was
like making itself like go hairless
essentially like it it was it was
tearing its hair out constantly until
there was like
nothing I don't know
that's it's like damn it never gets
easier no matter what size you are or
what creature you are you're always
going to be like in a ball of
anxiety but I just think about
that it's such a strange thing to think
about but all all spiders are like
really anxious I mean that's like part
of
their their like evolutionary
personality as most spiders are very
anxious
sing a song about
spiders sometimes I like playing these
chords I don't know how useful they are
but by themselves I think if you add
like another note somewhere
else they start to make sense but when
it's here
it's
like but
then but then there's
that itsy fitsy spider cover
[Music]
there I hope that suffices remix
when oh my God
okay I could just make normal
music I could do
that but instead oh my God there's so
many options to choose
from which there's so many there's so
many
can we find like a really sick one
though oh wait
Elmo I mean almost kind of
chill I'll put that on the other
tab I did remix cahoot but that's cuz I
was
desperate I I got better I healed I
healed I'm going to type it's see SE
spider but I'm going to give it like a
an arbitrary year someone give me an
arbitrary
year and then
cover
video
funny seven no can you can we have like
a year within the last 20 years please
instead of 1764
2001 I don't know if we'd find a 200
2001 I don't know if we find a 2001 2024
2006 2007 Sonic
06 I should typ it's viny spider Sonic
06 you're right 2008 I'll do a
2008 it's spider desie remix what
wait a
minute oh [__] what's this is this
Barney
[Music]
she she doesn't need autotune she
doesn't need that she doesn't need
autotune how dare itsy bitsy
PL um well here's what I'll tell you
that's not out of the question
here's a question can we get the stems
from this if there are any stems to be
had here's how we do it we open up
Sado sample and wait for it to load
because it takes 12
years we love plugins that take over 12
years to
open keep a Barney from halflife 2 in
this
now about that remix I owe
you let's put this in
here can we oh wait that's so silly of
me set the marker
unsync take out the vocals what do we
get
[Music]
it's
crazy it's a D major I
think or would I find out if I'm correct
I think it's a D major
[Music]
damn I don't know what's happening don't
ask
me is it d
I swear it's D
sh am I losing it I might be losing it
you know what you know what we're going
to go the [__] route we go chroma we go
[__]
D maybe it's gar minor or
[Music]
major I you know what I can't parse this
there's
I you know what back to
chroma it's called micr
Tel all right and then we
go no we don't do that come on do it the
right way what's happening what's wrong
with you there you
go okay you know what forget the
autotune
version what is the temp of this
can you stop it thank
you who there was like
[Music]
e shut up oh stop it what
me all right now we okay instead of
karma we do the long winded way and
go
here look the fundamental is literally
on DP
is
it no it's it's you know what I can't
even say at this
point it is D major it the autotune just
didn't know how to handle this
all
right then we take this and we chop it
by be
instead go away
18 oh is that not going to do it
correctly Bary needs no autotune
hold on can we just isn't it just now
what we do is if we're in a division of
one over8
what's like hold on one
second
wait where is Le
SP
okay the r the
again
I
r
again
ask
[Music]
find
all
[Music]
every
EX
Mak
out
EX
we want one of those
like like
get
I'm
for
that was not the intended sound but that
actually sounds kind of
cool kind of makes me want to do take
this and like make it more muted
so here's a thing you can de with shaver
box I want to do some transing shaping
on
this change up the volume mode audio
and let's just make it the
highend we can use this as like a
highend transion
shaper if I turn this
off versus
EX
[Music]
actually I'm wondering if instead of
doing this on the filter side
here we could share the power of shaper
box actually so let's let's let's
transform this
I
your
[Music]
he
back
so if I take off shaper box here's what
it sounds
like and with it
let's see
I
and here's going to be thing that I
think we'll make it
[Music]
I
the
[Music]
oh I'm on over dad
why is that not not
[Music]
playing oh that's the piano I'm silly I
know what I'm doing at all times
[Music]
the
here's a funny idea that may not work
but it would be very funny
[Music]
I
n
[Music]
Happ
f
[Music]
so then what you do cuz yeah the sample
has gotten very oversaturated here so
what we could do is
like take that Master thing and like
slowly bring it in like this
[Music]
there's also this idea let me see
V2 take away the drums take away the B
just listen to
this now let's delete
everything
for e
[Music]
a
d for
[Music]
he
I'm not sure about that rhythm
[Music]
he
he he
[Music]
he
where do I have
my
these oh
that's too long
[Music]
either I make an 808 now or I just find
one let's just find
one I enjoy none of these I'm just going
to make one
the
[Music]
what
for
for for
[Music]
that's
for
he yeah
[Music]
he
I forgot I have that in this kit
[Music]
he
I don't know why I've been so locked
into to this [__] beat I'm sorry
[Music]
why does it kind of sound like the cof
FLIR from
Pokemon that lead sounds like the cof
flute
[Music]
now well you know what that
means where am I I know what I'm doing
right for
[Music]
I could just pull out the sound font but
he
[Music]
I did miss the Pokemon flp I was just
getting something else
[Music]
he
seey
spider did something on the water spout
yeah
[Music]
he
get
[Music]
n
oh
[Music]
n
oh
[Music]
he
n
[Music]
[Applause]
he
n
[Music]
he
wa
[Music]
[Laughter]
for
[Music]
this just turn into Old L sign
um I guess this is a Christmas story
that's more pensive you go
[Music]
from I can't do the lower cord down here
cuz I need to transpose and then
transpose back
[Music]
see now that's the crazy lore reveal
f
[Music]
well that just
happened very funny everyone very funny
could you imagine if I had like an
orchestra behind me like following
whatever the [__] I was
doing I mean I can hold on a second
let's think about this for a second
[Music]
let's think about this for a second so
there's actually a way to do
this if I
load like a piano actually wait I think
augmented
pianos
by artura has a string
combination yeah listen to this so
it's piano plus strings
[Music]
but you don't need
this if you just have strings and if you
just have a piano you put them together
you can play them at the same
time there's two ways to do that in
Ableton so if you're an Ableton user
I'll show you right now let me find
let's just take some strings these can
be any strings I think
let's not use that let's
use um I think if you buy
contact you get or if you buy a certain
level of uh Native Instruments complete
you get their basic orchestral
thing so we
can go and
find those not one of the really premium
ones but just like one of the basic
ones not session strings it's string
Ensemble and then we just do
essential and you can use the mod wheel
over here I know you can't see it
but control the volume then you go over
here and pick out another piano and just
use contact cuz I have piano and blue
over here which I like
like you probably heard this in a few
Violet Pony
songs so at Ableton what you can do is
you can right click the record arm
button and turn off exclusive then you
can arm both at the same time
[Music]
but that takes up two tracks doesn't it
so what you can actually do is let's
turn record arm exclusive back on so
it's one thing at a time then you take
one of the instruments and you group it
like this you take the other one and you
copy and paste it into the chain and you
could delete everything else and now
even though we only have one track here
there's actually two instruments playing
at the same time
[Music]
so and you can still mix them separately
you just click on the Chain you can like
put an EQ or a Reverb or something and
you can see changes based on which track
you have selected in the chain so you
can combine instruments that
way it's a really effective thing in
able
t feel it' be nice if these were tremolo
do we have the
[Music]
tremolo you sort of have to get used to
playing with the mod wheel while you're
doing chords but it should be pretty
reasonable so then you can basically
have these things
where I'm basically putting two
instruments at
once the strings are still so loud
[Music]
putting some Reverb on those strings
will make it feel a little bit that's
not Reverb I use a super plate
actually look guys see I I use more than
Valla vintage verb for my Reverb this is
is proof
[Music]
now to be fair this isn't really the
method I use for composition but it is
something I do sometimes when I'm like
super lazy really what I like to do give
you an example before I go to
bed just play a
thing okay that's an example let me
bring this in I'll play the string
separately so let's go to string
Ensemble let's just choose violins this
time
let's get these all Reverb
group that's not what I wanted stop
at okay so I'll listen to this again
and I'll duplicate this so we have a new
one I'll defate this again let's choose
a different instrument
go H this time so it's
lower now look let me look at the notes
we have
here so we go dsharp
d gsh g so
that's okay so we go
so this is an example of like how I will
do orchestral
things usually a little bit more prati
like a little bit more rehearsed and
then usually I'm actually like doing in
a proper Arrangement this is an example
of this as improv I hope that makes
sense um let's do tune percussion how
does the xylophone
sound Glock and SP sorry
[Music]
so like imagine this workflow but it's
just an entire song right
let's add something else I'm feeling
English horn
now
um I guess the
solo do we not have English warn here
are you guys
idiots is that a brass
no English
horn
okay well we can do it this way shout
out to Nexus because Nexus has
one so you
know it's going to be I think it's in
winds here then go to English warn yep
and what else can we do here we can had
like like a little we're just going to
stick with Nexus now cuz Nexus is to go
in and out every day I'll never abandon
you Nexus my best friend the greatest of
all time everyone say thank you Nexus
[Music]
that was a whole other cord
I mean
look if I was working harder at this and
I had a more of a plan and I was like I
had this composition written already
like this sounds pretty real
right it's one of the most fun things to
do I think is uh work oral composition
highly recommend people compose for
orchestras
um wonder if we hear stuff like that in
my music it's always going to be like
this General method is I'll start with
usually piano or some like chord based
instrument and then I'll start writing
all the other parts around
it a sound that I really really really
really
like is when we take
um let's take a flute but like a
[Music]
staccato group
that let's
add on top of the
flute we go
to that's just a xylophone I think if I
can [__] find it
is that just in
[Music]
here and then one more copy and over
here we have a
violin I'm
sorry started yelling at me
[Music]
violin this is one of my favorite sounds
it's just this combination of
instruments
[Music]
so
like just one of my favorite sounds ever
just whatever that is
also this is a really nice
sound this sounds really nice for for
just [__]
around
sorry I should make shittier
things I think this part's still too
much though but
and this piano rings out and I'm too
lazy to fix the sustain so I'll just do
that that's better that makes it feel a
lot more
[Music]
natural to be fair this does involve
knowing how to like improvise everything
and harmonize with everything but enough
practice you could do stuff like this
like the advantage of doing stuff for
orchestral composition is usually you're
actually just working with single single
notes or sometimes two or three notes at
a time for these instruments CU they're
not going to be playing full chords the
only
time the only time something like a an
English horn is going to have like a
cord is if there's multiple English
horns playing at the same time and each
one's playing a different note in
harmony with each other that's how this
stuff works usually as a piano player
you tend to kind of forget that most
instruments can only play one note at a
time except for like string instruments
which is
interesting we love we love our chords
but um for orchestral composition you
usually do it like
this everything has its own part to play
an an a chord idea
and um it's actually a good practice
because you don't have to focus too much
on creating a huge composition for just
one
instrument I have no idea if the English
war is French but it probably
is um I I don't really anticipate doing
anything with this but I'm just going to
save it for
fun
uh we call it a right all these
stings and um I will say if you don't
play piano it's hard to do stuff like
this cuz trying to get it to sound so
realistic cuz like what makes the sound
real is it being imperfect like things
aren't perfectly in
time and the a lot harder to program so
playing it is much much much much
easier so let's that's the one caveat is
that trying to program this stuff is
very hard so um i' recommend learning
piano and then I recommends playing
around with these kinds of
ideas like
seriously um you can get
like the standard version of Ableton
comes with orchestral instruments I
think so if you buy Ableton you
have
like these things over
[Music]
here and you have like your French horn
they're not they're not perfect but like
you can make it
work how do you get to a point of
playing piano where you can play in your
head I honestly don't know I feel like I
have taken such a nebulous way of
learning music that it's
like my recommendation is becoming
familiar with notes part of the problem
is that I have relative perfect pitch
which is not something you can
teach um and I always feel bad because
like the feels like really lazy me to
say it's like just because I partially
have perfect pitch um and I don't think
that can be learned although I could be
wrong if someone wishes to correct me
but if you don't have perfect pitch then
just trying to learn
notes and trying to think in your head
pneumonics that help you remember what
note you're singing or humming or
thinking how to get it on the
keyboard This is a this is an area where
I wish I had better
advice because it's so nebulous the way
I do
it
but I think anyone can do it still
I what's so fun about doing this on
stuff on stream is like you just get to
see it happen and you can look at it be
like I might want to do that and you can
just do
it
um but ailon has these orchester
instants I think I Studio has the flex
ones uh logic has like the
best if if you're a if you're a Mac User
I'm sorry welcome to the same club I'm
in but um if you're a Mac User you can
get well you have Garage Band which is
great but if you get logic it has so
many more instruments as
well and you're you're kind of set for
like a lot of non- electronic music and
logic CU you just have everything there
you have the full
Orchestra and they all sound really
great
so okay I'm
tired and and I have things to do
tomorrow and we have top five videos
tomorrow don't
we we we we have top five videos
tomorrow it's
back um I thought it was funny again
that people thought that it was ending
because of the the girls who are wizards
but no we're just elevating the game
simply because of
it I love doing the top five videos
series
uh it's a great way of just getting all
my stems
out whatever my my my mouth wants to say
we just we just kind of let it happen in
top five
videos shout out to Captain James Crab
House Captain James Crabhouse it's the
place to be from Tuesdays to Tuesdays
Tuesday family
Captain James Crab House there are no
crabs please stop looking for the crabs
so the top five videos voice here I'll
do I think I demonstrated this on stream
already before but let's just run
through it
so don't make me repeat it Tuesdays to
Tuesday I I made a
preset um so I don't have to do this
from for the first seven versions of top
five videos I redid this this audio
chain over and over again I don't know
why I did it from scratch every single
time I just like kept forgetting to like
save a preset but now I have a preset
for it
so I'll show
you it's going to be starting with this
for the
pitching this because EQ OT because loud
more EQ because whatever compression DS
or another [__] EQ for some reason
and then
golfos and so if I record my voice as it
is right now hey what's up guys um
welcome to the videos hi everyone hey
what's up guys um welcome to the videos
hi
everyone and there it
is that's there she is she's she's the
top of
them one of the ones I is every time I
eat a cracker every time I eat a cracker
every time I eat a cracker every time I
eat a
cracker so
um yeah that's it most of the magic is
in this
thing is we have six six uh semmit tones
up but the forment is not six semitones
up it's one
lower which um I don't know uh little
alter boy is just faster to use the
manipulator I have manipulator in fact
that's the one I use for um
Kord tarious let's get Kord tarious up
in
here so it's Kord tarus I have to do a
lower voice so to go um everyone it's
crun tiberious how's it going guys um
everyone it's tiberious it
going so um that's done that's that's
done through
manipulator so we use
that and then we have
this just Tak just another format shift
I
guess um
EQ and then of course um this is being
automated I
think everyone it's Tiber going so the
envelope follower is changing the mix of
bitp which is make what makes it like
kind of weird sounding if I turn this up
all the
way so just adds a little bit of that
artifacting in there
[__]
OT this EQ shape again this compressor
again dser that and then another gol
F
so yeah I think what's funny is whenever
I'm recording The Voice lines for these
episodes I kind of already hear in my
head what they sound like before I've
recorded them so I've gotten so used to
leaning into the character so much it's
like really fun it's very fun
um half lifee 2 combine
m i mean I have
them they're
here not the virtual right samples
although I do love although I do
love I don't think it's said combined
funny enough it's I think it's in here
and then here
oh there's the
one there's the
one
crazy I also have all the music
it's
freaky very freaky most importantly are
these
maybe next
stream someone should remind me we
should make some like little button
sounds that's what Tracy was doing she
was showing me some of her
results these can be fun to
make I think that's something a lot of
people don't think about very much is
like how are these sounds actually
made like you've heard this sound so
many times but like have you like
thought about how it is how someone made
that
like how do you make
that one of the one of the coolest
things you can do to like kind of [__]
your brain up is like listen to any
sound in any video game if it doesn't
sound natural like it doesn't sound like
grass moving or footsteps ask yourself
how the [__] did they make that
though like if you actually stop to
think about it's like Jesus Christ that
must have taken a lot of like [__]
thought to make this one sound that
people may or may not even [__] no
this I definitely would I would
recommend that experience of going
through video video games and like
movies and stuff and being like you hear
a sound you're like okay in my brain how
would you do that how would you create
that and a lot of the times that kind of
like backwards thinking or reverse
engineering thinking gets you to really
interesting
results and what what's really fun is
when you're wrong when you're wrong
about how the sound was make made and
you try and make it then you come up
with a new technique for something that
you know is all your own which is very
fun um yeah I know I said I was going to
go to bed but just before I do um as an
example I got super last year super
fixated on like gun robot sounds like
how the [__] did they do like how do
they do that how do they make that how
do they make those sounds it's kind of
crazy there like like woring and like
shining sounds are so cool and Tracy and
I were talking for hours and hours and
hours trying to figure out like how
would we do them
ourselves and I can show you we figured
out some ideas
here are some of the ones that I made
from scratch
that was my favorite one of the whole
series I did this was my favorite
one like that's that's the most painful
laser you're ever going to see just
whatever the [__] that was um another
one was these I was like I was thinking
about how gun sounds and like stuff like
Hal and [__] we made
so I made these sounds
it's like that you would go over here
and You' like pick out this little piece
and be like oh this is the the the
gun so
fun process for these are so much harder
than you can imagine anything think what
were
these oh I was like doing some like whoh
impact
ideas those are
fun so like going out there and being
like how's that [__] made and like maybe
you don't know but you should try your
ideas and you'll come up with something
interesting you should do that with like
all sorts of Crea creative things like I
don't know how this show was done but
I'm going to like approximate it and
then like what happens is you come up
with your own like techniques and that's
like always going to be useful
regardless of whether you actually
figure out what the person's doing or
not
so
anyway I'm going to
bed I am going to
bed because so
sleepy
and
and what was I
doing
fortnite wait what's
this wait wait oh okay here we go good
night everyone
[Music]
he